eventcam/README.md, before:

# EventCam (minimal)

Self-hosted event camera app with QR join and uploads to a shared album folder.

## Local run

1. Install deps: `npm install`
2. Start: `npm start`
3. Visit `http://localhost:5001/admin`
4. Each event gets a unique login; new credentials show once in the admin view (use Regenerate login to rotate).

## Local HTTPS (phone camera support)

Self-signed certs require trust on the phone before the camera will work.

1) Generate a cert (replace `<LAN_IP>` with your Mac IP):
```
mkdir -p certs
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -days 365 \
  -keyout certs/key.pem -out certs/cert.pem \
  -subj "/CN=eventcam.local" \
  -addext "subjectAltName=DNS:localhost,IP:<LAN_IP>"
```
2) Run with HTTPS:
```
SSL_CERT_PATH=certs/cert.pem SSL_KEY_PATH=certs/key.pem npm start
```
3) On your phone, open `https://<LAN_IP>:5001/admin` and trust the cert.

## Environment variables

- `PORT` (default 5001)
- `BASE_URL` (optional, used for QR codes)
- `DEFAULT_EVENT_NAME`
- `ALLOW_GUEST_UPLOADS` (true/false)
- `PHOTOS_DIR` (default /photos)
- `CONFIG_DIR` (default /config)
- `SSL_CERT_PATH` / `SSL_KEY_PATH` (enable HTTPS)
- `ADMIN_USER` / `ADMIN_PASSWORD` (protects `/admin` with Basic auth, defaults admin/admin)
- Postgres:
  - `DB_HOST`, `DB_PORT`, `DB_NAME`, `DB_USER`, `DB_PASSWORD`, `DB_SSLMODE`

## Docker

Build: `docker build -t yourrepo/eventcam:latest .`
Run:
```
docker run -p 5001:5001 \
  -v /path/to/config:/config \
  -v /path/to/photos:/photos \
  -e BASE_URL="http://your-host:5001" \
  -e DB_HOST="postgres-host" \
  -e DB_USER="eventcam" \
  -e DB_PASSWORD="password" \
  yourrepo/eventcam:latest
```

Optional HTTPS (mount certs into the container):
```
docker run -p 5001:5001 \
  -v /path/to/config:/config \
  -v /path/to/photos:/photos \
  -v /path/to/certs:/certs \
  -e SSL_CERT_PATH="/certs/cert.pem" \
  -e SSL_KEY_PATH="/certs/key.pem" \
  yourrepo/eventcam:latest
```

## Release checklist (Docker Hub)

1) Build the image:
```
docker build -t crackerformula/eventcam:ai .
```
2) Log in to Docker Hub:
```
docker login
```
3) Push the image:
```
docker push crackerformula/eventcam:ai
```
4) Update Unraid template `Repository` to match the tag if it changes.

## First run checklist (Unraid)

1) Deploy Postgres with `unraid-template-eventcam-postgres.xml` (br0 recommended).
2) Note the Postgres container IP on br0.
3) Deploy EventCam with `unraid-template-eventcam.xml`.
4) Set `DB_HOST` to the Postgres IP, `BASE_URL` to your public/lan URL, and map `/photos` to your share.
5) Open `http://<host>:5001/admin`, create an event, and print/share the QR code.

Commit message:

Update README for guest flow and env vars

eventcam/README.md, after:

# EventCam (minimal)

Self-hosted event camera app with QR join, guest uploads, and per-event admin controls.

## Local run

1. Install deps: `npm install`
2. Start: `npm start`
3. Visit `http://localhost:5001/admin`
4. Each event gets a unique login; new credentials show once in the admin view (use Regenerate login to rotate).
5. Guests can scan the QR to open the camera directly. Event login is required for dashboard access and event deletion.

## Local HTTPS (phone camera support)

Self-signed certs require trust on the phone before the camera will work.

1) Generate a cert (replace `<LAN_IP>` with your Mac IP):
```
mkdir -p certs
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -days 365 \
  -keyout certs/key.pem -out certs/cert.pem \
  -subj "/CN=eventcam.local" \
  -addext "subjectAltName=DNS:localhost,IP:<LAN_IP>"
```
2) Run with HTTPS:
```
SSL_CERT_PATH=certs/cert.pem SSL_KEY_PATH=certs/key.pem npm start
```
3) On your phone, open `https://<LAN_IP>:5001/admin` and trust the cert.

## Environment variables

- `PORT` (default 5001)
- `BASE_URL` (optional, used for QR codes)
- `DEFAULT_EVENT_NAME`
- `ALLOW_GUEST_UPLOADS` (true/false, when false uploads require event login)
- `PHOTOS_DIR` (default /photos)
- `CONFIG_DIR` (default /config)
- `SSL_CERT_PATH` / `SSL_KEY_PATH` (enable HTTPS)
- `ADMIN_USER` / `ADMIN_PASSWORD` (protects `/admin` with Basic auth, defaults admin/admin)
- Postgres:
  - `DB_HOST`, `DB_PORT`, `DB_NAME`, `DB_USER`, `DB_PASSWORD`, `DB_SSLMODE`

## Docker

Build: `docker build -t yourrepo/eventcam:latest .`
Run:
```
docker run -p 5001:5001 \
  -v /path/to/config:/config \
  -v /path/to/photos:/photos \
  -e PORT=5001 \
  -e BASE_URL="http://your-host:5001" \
  -e DB_HOST="postgres-host" \
  -e DB_USER="eventcam" \
  -e DB_PASSWORD="password" \
  yourrepo/eventcam:latest
```

Optional HTTPS (mount certs into the container):
```
docker run -p 5001:5001 \
  -v /path/to/config:/config \
  -v /path/to/photos:/photos \
  -v /path/to/certs:/certs \
  -e PORT=5001 \
  -e SSL_CERT_PATH="/certs/cert.pem" \
  -e SSL_KEY_PATH="/certs/key.pem" \
  yourrepo/eventcam:latest
```

## Release checklist (Docker Hub)

1) Build the image:
```
docker build -t crackerformula/eventcam:ai .
```
2) Log in to Docker Hub:
```
docker login
```
3) Push the image:
```
docker push crackerformula/eventcam:ai
```
4) Update Unraid template `Repository` to match the tag if it changes.

## First run checklist (Unraid)

1) Deploy Postgres with `unraid-template-eventcam-postgres.xml` (br0 recommended).
2) Note the Postgres container IP on br0.
3) Deploy EventCam with `unraid-template-eventcam.xml`.
4) Set `DB_HOST` to the Postgres IP, `BASE_URL` to your public/lan URL, and map `/photos` to your share.
5) Open `http://<host>:5001/admin`, create an event, and print/share the QR code.
